# A Machine Learning Model using TensorFlow to Describe the Market Price of Cryptocurrencies: The Case of Bitcoin.
#### David P Lopez, and Eric Hernandez Ph.D. Miami Dade College Kendall Campus, Miami, FL.

## ABSTRACT

An implementation of  a Machine Learning model using TensorFlow to describe the price of Bitcoin, quantified 30 predictors to create a multiple linear regression to predict and measure the outcome of the regression loss with a Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) function. RMSE measures the error between observed and predicted data. The model trained resulted in an RMSE of 802.176, indicating that the loss accounts for 4.1% of the error when compared to the observed target values, being within 0.27 standard deviations from the mean. The training of the model consumed daily pricing and feature data to answer the question: which features, or predictors have the most significant impact on the price of Bitcoin? Consisting of 2,912 observations,  and employing statistical testing to measure the R-Squared values of the model to explain the percentage of the variation of the response variable, the output of the model’s R-Squared value is 0.772. Making corrections for multicollinearity and eliminating the potential of extreme measures of Variance Inflation Factors, the model suggests that the features associated with market demand; number of transactions, transaction confirmation times, transaction USD volume, and market demand measured using Google Search Trends data, account for the prices observed in the Bitcoin markets today. Faster confirmation times, demand as measured by daily Google searches, and transaction volume, explain 77.2% of the price of Bitcoin described by the R-Squared result with p-values of 0.00, rejecting the null hypothesis of R-Squared = 0 using a significance level of 0.05. The market demands Bitcoin.
