# A Machine Learning Model using TensorFlow to Describe the Market Price of Cryptocurrencies: The Case of Bitcoin.
#### David P Lopez, and Eric Hernandez Ph.D. Miami Dade College Kendall Campus, Miami, FL.

## ABSTRACT

An implementation of a Machine Learning model using TensorFlow to describe the price of Bitcoin. The study quantified 30 predictors to develop a multiple linear regression to predict the market price of Bitcoin via Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) function. RMSE measures the error between observed and predicted data. The model resulted in an RMSE of 802.176, indicating that the loss accounts for 4.1% of the error when compared to the observed target values. The model observed daily pricing and feature data to answer the question: which predictors have a significant impact on the price of Bitcoin? Consisting of 2,912 observations the model explained 77.2% percent of the variation of the response variable. Corrections for multicollinearity took place by eliminating Variance Inflation Factors greater than 5 and selecting statistically-significant features whose P-Values were less than 0.05. The model suggested that the features associated with market demand, number of transactions, transaction confirmation times, transaction USD volume, and market demand measured using Google Search Trends data, account for the prices observed in the Bitcoin markets today. Faster confirmation times, demand as measured by daily Google searches, and transaction volume, explain 77.2% of the price of Bitcoin described by the R-Squared result.